# The Guide

*The Guide* is a writer's resource aimed primarily at the [SUNY
Geneseo](http://www.geneseo.edu) community. It is not a grammar or usage
handbook, though its pages do treat some of the more common mechanical
errors, wrestle with a few vexatious usage questions, and attempt to
explode a few myths. The main purpose of *The Guide* is to set out, in
very broad terms, basic principles of good composition for a particular
genre of writing: the college essay.

Judgments about writing are necessarily bound up with aesthetic
preferences - cultural, historical, and personal. In addition, judgments
about academic writing inevitably reflect differences between
disciplines. Even in a genre as narrow as the college essay, there is
simply no single answer to the question, [What is good
writing?](whatisgood.md) *The Guide* attempts to establish
common ground for faculty and students at Geneseo, but it also
represents individual and disciplinary diversity through its faculty and
department style sheets. 

Students should remember that an **instructor's style sheet or other
requirements always take precedence** over any advice offered in the
main pages of *The Guide.*

*The Guide* first went online in
[2000](http://web.archive.org/web/20000117010114/http://writingguide.geneseo.edu/).
An extensive [2003
revision](http://web.archive.org/web/20030729075747/http://writingguide.geneseo.edu/)
added expanded discussions of race and language, gender and language,
and the politics of linguistic convention within an entirely new layout.
However, a good deal of inelegant and outdated code lingered. The
present, 2008, version complies with [W3C
standards](http://validator.w3.org/check?uri=http%3A%2F%2Fwritingguide.geneseo.edu%2F)
and aims for maximum simplicity, flexibility, and navigability. The new
wiki should also make *The Guide* more useful to faculty by enabling
them to edit their [own pages](http://wiki.geneseo.edu/x/FwDNAg) and
contribute to pages on particular issues of [grammar, usage, and
punctuation](https://wiki.geneseo.edu:8443/display/writing/Grammar+and+Usage).

*The Guide*'s [Creative Commons
license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) permits you to
copy, redistribute, transform, adapt, remix, and build on its content
without restriction as long as you provide appropriate attribution to
the authors and a link to the license.
